In security, there are a variety
of reasons we might need to
search through a string.
For example, we might need to
locate a username
in a security log.
Or, if we learn that
a certain IP address is
associated with malware,
we might search for this
address in a network log.
And, the first step in being
able to use Python in
these ways is learning
about the index of
characters in a string.
The index is a
number assigned to
every element in a sequence
that indicates its position.
In this video, we are
discussing strings.
So, the index is
the position of each
character in a string.
Let's start with
the string "HELLO."
Every character in the
string is assigned an index.
In Python, we start
counting indices from 0.
So, the character "H"
has an index of 0,
and "E" has an index
of 1, and so on.
Let's take this into Python
and practice using indices.
Placing an index in
square brackets after
a string returns the
character at that index.
Let's place the index 1 in
square brackets after
"HELLO" and run it.
This returned the character "E."
Remember, indices start at 0,
so an index of 1 isn't the
first character in the word.
But what if we want it to
return more than
just one character?
We can extract a larger part of
a string by specifying
a set of indices.
This is called a slice.
When taking a slice
from a string,
we specify where the slice
starts and where the slice ends.
So we provide two indices.
The first index
is the beginning,
which is included in the output.
The second index is the end,
but it's not included
in the final output.
Instead, Python stops
the slice at the element
before the second index.
For example, if we wanted
to take the letters E-L-L
from "HELLO,"
we would start the
interval from the index 1,
but we'd end before the index 4.
Let's try this example and
extract a slice from
a string in Python.
Let's type in the string and
take the slice starting
at index 1 and ending
before index 4.
Now, let's run the code
and examine the output.
There's the slice we wanted.
Now that we know how to describe
the location of a
character in a string,
let's learn how to
search in a string.
To do this, we need to
use the index method.
The index method finds
the first occurrence of
the input in a string and
returns its location.
Let's practice using the
index method in Python.
Let's say we want to
use the index method
to find the character
"E" in the string "HELLO."
We'll locate the
first instance of
the character "E." Let's examine
this line in more detail.
After writing the string
and the index method,
we use the character we want to
find as the argument
of the index method.
Remember, the strings in
Python are case-sensitive,
so we need to make sure
we use the appropriate case
with the index method.
Let's run this code now.
This returned the number 1.
This is because "E" has
an index value of 1.
Now, let's explore an example
where a character repeats
multiple times in the string.
Let's try searching for
the character "L." We start
with similar code as before,
passing the argument "L" instead
of "E" to the index method.
Now, let's run this code
and investigate the result.
The result is the index 2.
This tells us that
the method only
identified the
first occurrence of
the character "L" and
not the second.
This is an important detail to
notice when working
with the index method.
As a security analyst,
learning how to
work with indices
allows you to find certain
parts in a string.
For example, if you need to find
the location of the @
symbol in an email,
you can use the
index method to find
what you're looking for
with one line of code.
Now let's turn our attention
to an important property
of the strings.
Have you ever heard
the expression
"some things never change"?
It might be said about
the comfortable feeling you
have with a good friend,
even when you haven't seen
them for a long time.
Well, in Python, we can also
say this about strings.
Strings are immutable.
In Python, "immutable"
means that it
cannot be changed after it's
created and assigned a value.
Let's break this down
with an example.
Let's assign the string "HELLO"
to the variable my_string.
Now, if we want to change
the character "E" to an "A"
so my_string has the
value "HALLO,"
then we might be inclined
to use index notation.
But here we get an error.
My_string is immutable,
so we cannot
make changes like this.
And there you have it!
You've just learned how to index
and slice into strings.
You've also seen that
strings are immutable.
You cannot reassign characters
after a string has been defined.
Coming up, we'll learn
about list operations
and see that
lists can be changed with index
notation. Meet you there.